hello and welcome to the we are bbc good
food series in which we introduce you to
our team
and our contributors i'm keith kendrick
magazine's editor
and i'm delighted to welcome craig and
sean mcenough
aka the original flavor brothers whose
phenomenal jamaican-themed cookbook has
become
well a phenomenon the boys are featured
in the october issue of good food where
they share the inspiration behind their
cooking
and the recipe for their all-time
favorite dish
but more of that soon hi craig and sean
great to see you
how are you doing keith you're right
yeah great to see you boys
um craig we're featuring your story and
your favorite dish in this month's bbc
good food magazine
but tell us about how original flavor
came about what's your what's what's the
story and what inspired you
oh wow um i think definitely our
upbringing inspired us
um being in a very closely knit family
um
our mom and our grandmother um cooked a
lot and often brought us in the kitchen
a lot and
told us to do all the you know the
boring jobs you know like set the table
um you know like clear clear the table
up
um bring out the food but i guess we've
got um
first dibs on the food i guess when she
went looking but it was boring at the
time but i think um that was
um where our love started and um yeah we
brought it across
into our own way in our own style
through original flavor
and we started that in 2016 on online
first and uh my first video got a
million views in a week so it kind of
just blew up
um overnight so so what is your cooking
style tell us about that
oh cooking style would be definitely um
it's all about the
uses of a lot of fresh ingredients um a
lot of
we've seasoned our food with a variety
of different um
fresh and dried seasonings as well so i
think that is definitely our style the
whole seasoning process
marinating process taking our time as
well with caribbeans we love to take our
time in
in general but um especially when it
comes to cooking you like to
you've got this incredibly successful uh
cookbook and your on your
uh you know your facebook videos and
your social media stuff in general
how does it work working together as
brothers does one come up with the uh
the recipe ideas the other does the
cooking collaboration what should what's
your dynamic
i think it's a a great contrast you know
um because of my brothers in the design
industry
um obviously um i love cooking rod loves
cooking as well so i'm kind of like
fast ideas and pajama you know we're
quite close his brother's always been
close
so kind of a bit like in a band where
you're sort of jamming and you know
bouncing off each other
i've got three younger brothers i know
that we're both perfectionists as well
we kind of like challenge each other
to be better and better i'm just
progressing as well so it's quite great
you know in terms of business
who's the oldest i'm the oldest yeah all
right so uh so
do you look up to him do you look up to
the kind of big bro
growing up i've always talked to my
brother um i've always looked up to him
and you know we've been very close
growing up we should have seen bumping
yeah
um obviously i was at the bottom yeah at
the bottom
snoring fantastic i've got i've got two
sons and
uh you know the younger used to look up
to the older but they're kind of
drifting a little bit now because one's
about to turn 16 one's 13 so it's a
you know i hope that dynamic comes back
together anyway
um sean so what do you think people's
perception is of
of jamaican food you know you've spoken
about it in this article in the
in bbc good food i think um you know
it's quite positive you know you know
jamaican food is you know seen in a good
light i feel
that jerk chicken is a staple dish that
curry dirt rice and peas
but i feel that you know to make them
feel it's more like a wider range of
that
a lot of vegan dishes a lot of fresh
fruits a lot of fresh vegetables
that can be used in veganism and all
kinds of dishes fish as well
so it's not just about chicken and curry
that
many people that just know about it's a
wide range of different kind of
foods tell us about your favorite dish
the the recipe uh that we're featuring
in uh in the magazine
with this of all time um making food is
definitely ackee and saltfish because
this
reminds me of growing up when i was
really young my grandmother used to make
it on the weekends you know
kind of like used to wake me up in the
morning that smell of atkins salt fish
and those sweet
buttery delicious dumplings it was
amazing you know
such an iconic dish what what exactly is
a key what exactly is salt fish that you
know maybe some people don't know
so aki is basically um a fruit but it's
cooked like a vegetable
it's got like a kind of a bitter ending
taste but it's similar to
in texture of egg but it doesn't taste
like egg
it's quite you know the bittery
flavoursome and
quite punchy as well it's got a really
nice taste and also salt fish
is obviously salted cod which we soak
overnight
authentically and kind of bring to a
boil boil it two or three times to
remove all the excess salt
and just cooked him with some onions and
garlic scotch bonnet pimento
and various amounts of spices in it so
is this
is this a long slow cooking method is it
comfort food
is it quick get it on the table as soon
as you come home from work
it's such a quick dish it's a specialty
dish that will have a special occasions
like
christmas easter on saturday mornings
you know
um yeah it's definitely like a special
dish it's actually jamaica's
national dish right okay
iconic dish but yeah definitely it's a
fan favorite
well i implore everybody to uh you know
get over the magazine and
and check that out it's a fantastic uh
recipe uh let me ask you both what's
next for
the original flavor brothers i think
you've had some quite
recent um developments significant
developments in your lives haven't you
yeah we've both come fathers um
last year i my twin girls my brother had
my nephew leo son yeah
our kids we love bringing them together
um playing with each other
can have a week as well you know just
playing each other just building that
bond as well that we both have ourselves
and um yeah man hopefully takeover
do you have any other cooking projects
lined up planned
yeah so we actually got a studio that
we're building up to help
other um chefs in the community um
have a bit more of a platform for
themselves especially um within the
black community as well because
when we grew up obviously we saw the
amazing chefs like hd and
um levi roots and et cetera et cetera
so it would be good for people within
our community as well to get that
platform that we've
um had the benefit of getting so we'd
like to share that as well so we're
building that up for um black history
month next month well
this month um
yeah well let's keep in touch about that
because that sounds really exciting
okay boys well it's been fantastic
talking to you thank you for sharing uh
you know your experiences uh you know
thank you for joining me on
on this i know it's probably a very busy
time in your
in your lives at the moment i don't envy
you i've been there i've seen it mine
are all kind of
nearly grown up now so uh you know
good care luck care